Welcome to Designing a Scripting
Interface for Mac OS X.
I'd like to introduce Christopher Nebel,
Senior AppleScript Engineer.
Thank you, Chris, for coming to talk to
you about this subject.
All righty.
Like John said, I'm Christopher Nebel,
AppleScript in Automator Engineering.
Welcome to session 103,
Designing a Scripting Interface.
If this is not the session
you plan to attend,
now would be an excellent time to leave.
Matt Dash for the Exit is finished.
I should point out that this
session is actually one of a series.
Today is designing a scripting interface.
Tomorrow -- so when you're
done here go home and think
about what you want to design.
Come back tomorrow morning and
there's a session on implementing
your scripting interface.
You can make it do something aside
from just sit there and look pretty.
And then if you still have
questions there's a lab later
that same afternoon so we can
answer all your questions there.
Now I'm going to have to apologize.
I'm going to pull a bit of
a bait and switch on you.
This is supposed to be a hands-on
session but because of some snafus which
were at least partly my fault we don't
actually have the sample code here.
So it's going to be
more of a guided tour.
You get to kind of follow along.
You might have a few extra questions
at the lab but there you go.
"So, designing a scripting interface.
What you'll learn, you know,
what the heck is a scripting interface,
what should it look like,
and the hands-on, virtually speaking,
how to actually write one,
how to write it down in sdef,
which is the modern, you know,
The file format for specifying
a scripting interface.
That screenshot you can barely
read right there is what it
actually looks like to a user.
This is a screenshot of the
dictionary viewer in Tiger.
So keep talking scripting interface,
scripting interface, scripting interface.
Great.
What's a scripting interface?
So presumably everyone knows what
a graphical user interface is.
It's all the windows and menus and
buttons and whatnot that a user
with a mouse and a keyboard can push
to make your application do stuff.
So a scripting interface is simply
the bits of your application that
are exposed so a program can control
your application to make it do stuff.
It's an API for your application.
looked at it in a slightly different way.
It's the objects and commands
that your application exposes
to the rest of the world,
exposes to other programs
so they can control you.
If you look at it in
Model-View-Controller terms,
Model-View-Controller is a
common Cocoa design pattern,
originally came from
the small talk world.
It's a way of segmenting your application
into the model layer which is sort of the
things your application considers real,
the view which is presentation,
and controller mediates between the two.
It's simply another view
onto your model objects.
Now, the interesting thing about a
scripting interface is that while
the graphical view involves a lot of
abstraction and presentation logic,
a scripting interface's view will
map very directly onto your model.
It's a very, very thin translation layer.
If you think of it in
implementation terms,
a scripting interface is simply an sdef,
or something you derive from one.
There are a couple older
scripting interface formats that
you can derive from an sdef.
Now you will notice that so far
I have not mentioned AppleScript.
That is because scripting interfaces
are not merely useful for AppleScript.
They can be used by other
scripting languages,
they can be used by other applications,
they can be used by Automator actions.
So if you are not real
keen on AppleScript,
we don't care.
It has lots of other purposes besides.
Speaking of which, why would you want one
of these things anyway?
Well, we've built up a number
of reasons over the years.
Obviously, the first and foremost is so
people can build automated
workflows using your application.
Put together a long task,
they can push one button and
get a whole bunch of stuff done.
You can use it yourself, in-house.
You can use your scripting
interface to test your model harder,
faster, and more repeatedly than you ever
could using graphical interface.
You can use it to interoperate
with other applications.
I mentioned that other applications
can use your Scripting Interface.
Mail and iPhoto have this
kind of relationship.
That iPhoto can take photos out of
mail messages and put them into iPhoto
using iPhoto's Scripting Interface.
And iPhoto uses Mail's Scripting
Interface to send photos to people.
You can use it to save
yourself some work,
frankly.
Not add so many features.
Everybody's got one raving, lunatic user,
actually usually more than one,
who just has to have this
one feature that's like,
well,
but you're the only person who cares.
So, well,
if you have a scripting interface,
you can quite often write this
guy a script or get someone
else to write it for him,
or he can do it himself.
And now he's got his feature.
He's happy.
And you didn't have to
write a new feature for him.
Now,
if suddenly you find a whole bunch of
users all raving for the same thing,
well, congratulations.
You've just identified a
new feature for yourself.
And you've got your
users to do it for you.
And finally,
you can make your application quite
literally indispensable to your users.
Remember those automated workflows?
Once somebody has one,
and the larger the better,
and they've got it working,
they don't want to give it up.
Your application is now an
integral part of their job,
and they're going to really,
really resist switching away from it.
And finally, in Tiger,
we've got one more reason,
which is that a Scripting Interface
is really the best way to tie
your application into Automator.
Writing a scripting interface for
your application is a lot easier
in almost all cases than writing a
linkable C API to your application.
So now you know why,
let's talk a little bit about how.
There are,
despite the fact that this is API,
you know, it's code, people think, oh,
you know, it's code, whatever,
there are no standards for that.
Well, think again.
There really are design
standards for these things.
Let's talk about some of them now.
The first one, the biggest one,
is know your model.
That's model in model
view controller terms.
Scriptability is really all defined
in terms of model scripting,
not view scripting.
People make this mistake sometimes.
They think, oh,
obviously you just click menus,
you do buttons.
You imitate the things that you do
in the graphical user interface.
And they say, well, why wouldn't you?
Because then I don't have to do anything.
Well, that's true, but the end result
doesn't work very well.
View scripts are rather
difficult to write,
and they're very difficult to read.
They're also just kind of brittle.
People rearrange their
views all the time,
move menu commands around and whatnot.
And as soon as you do that,
all your view scripts break.
The model tends to be a bit more stable.
What your application does
is relatively constant.
So model scripts will
stay working longer.
And the other thing is that Automator
and AppleScript are both very,
very different.
They're both based
around model scripting.
There are a number of features
in AppleScript that really
don't work very well if you
don't have objects to talk to.
And Automator itself is based on the
notion of application objects flowing
from action to action to action.
Well, you can't really do that
if you don't have any.
So, a little example here.
So at the top we have--these
are two scripts that
essentially do the same thing.
The top one uses view scripting.
So, quick, what does a script do?
Well,
you really don't have much of an idea.
It's like, okay, select something,
type something, select a menu item,
and okay.
And obviously if this menu
item moves somewhere else,
then okay, we're in trouble.
The bottom one is the
model scripting version.
It's set the myCard property
and address book to me,
person Chris Nebel.
That's myCard.
So it's a lot more,
obviously a lot simpler
to read and write.
Next up, know your users.
This has two different aspects to it.
The first is that your scripting
interface is -- you should think
of it in terms of talking to users,
not your fellow
implementers down the hall.
So any object or command that shows
up in your scripting interface,
its purpose should be
immediately apparent to any
normal user of your application.
They should know what it is.
Ideally, you know,
the terms in your documentation in
your graphical user interface and your
scripting interface should all match.
So avoid any internal only
implementation objects.
To the extent that your implementation
objects are your model objects,
then that's fine.
Go ahead and use them.
But if you have a model concept
that's actually represented by
two or three different classes,
then don't reveal those two
or three different classes.
Make a facade that just shows
the one model object that
users will actually recognize.
The other aspect to know your users
is simply know what they care about.
Some applications are very large.
You've got a humongous
application you look at and say,
"Oh my God, making this thing completely
scriptable would just take forever.
We're not going to do any of it."
Right identification of the problem,
wrong solution.
What you do is you know your users,
you find out what's
most important to them,
make those things scriptable first,
stage the rest, some things you might be
able to put off forever.
So this is an example
of the first aspect.
So at the top we have a bit
of the iTunes dictionary.
This is the top-level application object,
which contains everything, eventually,
that iTunes knows about.
And looking through the
various sub-elements,
I can see that I recognize
most of these things.
There are various kinds of windows,
encoders.
The fact that there's
apparently an arbitrary number
of EQ windows is a little odd,
because I happen to know
there's only one of them.
But there's this one called Sources.
And this one's kind of weird,
because the word Source appears
in exactly one place in
the iTunes interface.
It's at the top of that left-hand column.
And the things that the scripting
interface tells me are sources do not
really match what's in that column.
This is just kind of funky.
A more sensible version is down below.
This is iPhoto, which very sensibly says,
"I contain albums, keywords, photos,
windows.
I know what all these things
are if I'm a normal iPhoto user.
No problems." And they all have the
obvious relationships to each other,
too.
Third thing, be object-oriented.
This might seem a little
obvious now in 2005,
but people still make this mistake.
Your scripting interface should
really be organized around -- well,
first off, you should have some objects
to organize things around.
And, second, the objects are the focus,
not the commands in most cases.
This has a number of interesting effects.
One, it's generally easier to understand
because most applications are
really organized around the
objects in the first place.
Those are the things that
are really important.
You have objects, you operate on them.
The other thing is that it gives
you a smaller and simpler interface
that's still just as powerful because
you get this multiplicative effect.
You have objects times verbs where
to do it with just verbs you need
to list all 300 of them separately.
And the last thing is that
you can exploit features of
certain scripting languages,
notably AppleScript.
Like I said earlier,
they don't work real well
without objects to talk to.
Things like tell blocks
and whose clauses.
These are very,
very powerful features of AppleScript.
But again,
they don't work without objects.
And the corollary to this is
you should only define new
commands when you need to.
There's a standard set of commands
to cover basic object operations:
get, set, make, delete, add, remove.
So use those where they make sense.
If you have something that
genuinely doesn't fit in,
for instance,
mail has a send command that has
no relation to the standard set.
So that one's fine.
But use the standard set where you can.
Some applications,
and in fact the one we'll be
looking at is kind of like this,
really that's all they need.
Their entire application is just based
around manipulating object properties,
making and deleting them.
That's really all they do.
So an example here,
this top one comes from the old Mosaic
browser suite years and years ago,
so I suppose they can be forgiven now.
They defined a closeAllWindows command.
It's perfectly obvious
what this thing does.
It closes all the windows.
But they didn't really need to do this,
because there's already a window object
which responds to close messages.
And what do you need
with closeAllWindows?
The fact that you can close
all windows just falls out of
normal object addressing syntax.
"Thing 4: Don't re-invent stuff." Again,
this means reusing the standard stuff.
You can steal stuff from yourself, too.
If you've got two objects that
are mostly like each other,
hey, you can use inheritance.
Everybody knows what inheritance is.
Feel free to go ahead and
define abstract base classes.
That's a case where things that the user
doesn't see directly is actually okay.
The other part is, you know,
steal stuff from others.
Imitate similar applications.
Take a look at other applications
that do roughly what you do and
look at borrowing their model
terms and how they organize things.
So, you know,
you're doing text processing,
take a look at text edit,
you're doing personal
information management.
Look at address book.
And so on.
Okay,
so to sum this all up into a checklist,
I've been talking a bunch about
different design principles.
These are all written down along with
a lot of other more detailed stuff.
In Tech Note 2106,
Scripting Interface Guidelines,
write that number down.
The next thing you're going to need to do
is actually think about your application.
You need to identify what
are your model objects,
what are their attributes,
how do they relate to each other.
Who contains what?
You identify your unique operations,
the ones that don't fit
into the standard suite,
and then go ahead and design
your entire scripting interface.
I mean all of it.
Ideally you should do this
before you even write any code.
It actually helps in writing the code.
If you need to, phase the implementation.
If you've got a large enough application,
you don't have to do it all at once.
It's perfectly okay to do less
than your graphical user interface.
A funny thing here is that
it's also okay to do more than
your graphical user interface.
Scripting is actually a really good
way to expose functionality that for
some reason you don't want to put in
your graphical user interface yet.
You don't have the time,
you're trying to keep things simple.
The scripting interface can be
a bit of a backdoor to this.
For instance,
Address Book added scripting
interface fields for,
what was it, nickname and prefix,
I believe it was,
one release before they added any
graphical user interface for them.
Last step, write it all down in sdef.
That's what the guided tour is all about.
And follow the guidelines.
Consistency is power.
A big part of the Macintosh graphical
interface and why it was so powerful,
or why it is so powerful,
isn't just that it's graphical,
isn't just that people can, you know,
it's C and point instead
of remember and type.
It's that it's consistent.
Things that you learn in one
application work in another.
Things that look the same work the same.
Things that work the same look the same.
The same consistency is equally powerful,
if not more so,
in scripting tasks because
the whole point is to be tying
different applications together.
You'd like them to behave
as consistently as possible.
In fact,
probably the primary complaint of
just about any scripting user about
any scriptable application these
days is that it doesn't work like
any other scriptable application,
or at least has some oddities to it.
So please, follow the guidelines.
If there are parts of the
guidelines you find incomplete,
ask us.
Okay,
so now we'll move on to the guided tour.
Obviously, I didn't fix my slides.
So we'll see, you know,
adding a basic sdef to the application.
We've got a skeleton one we start from.
We can include all the standard stuff.
We're going to define a couple
of application-specific classes,
show an inheritance relationship,
adding a property, hook up an element
relationship between the two.
We're going to add a couple of commands,
and finally we'll look at a
little shortcut if you've actually
done some of this work already,
but not necessarily in an sdef.
And tomorrow morning we will be
implementing most of the same stuff.
Right now we're just going
to do the interface part.
If I could switch over to demo one,
please.
Thank you.
So for this example,
we are going to be using Sketch,
a venerable Cocoa sample.
If you need to get it yourself,
it's in the standard developer examples.
Developer, examples, app kit, sketch.
For those of you who
haven't seen it before,
it's a simple drawing program.
[Transcript missing]
"I'm going to slap various
colors on things." You know,
standard stuff.
It's really there more to be a sample
of Cocoa Document application than
to really be a great artist tool.
So we're going to add,
we're going to make
this thing scriptable.
So I'm going to have the
Sketch project open here already.
So the first thing we're
going to do is add the,
kind of a skeleton sdef.
This contains all the standard stuff,
and this is the thing that I was
supposed to have on the server for you,
but don't.
This should be available on
the attendee website by the
time the conference is over.
Failing that,
we'll have copies at the lab tomorrow,
so come grab one then if you want.
And the main thing is just
sticking in the Resources group.
"And that's that.
So let's have a look at this."
So an sdef is simply an XML document.
It is not a plist, mind you.
It has its own structure.
"Your plist editing tools
will not work on this."
We're actually going to be doing
all of this hardcore by hand.
There are third-party applications
out there to edit these things
in a more graphical form.
The other thing we're going to need
to do first is tell the runtime
that this thing actually exists.
We're going to do that by adding
an extra key to our plist.
OSAScriptingDefinition
= a string sketch.sdef.
So this is simply-- oh, I forgot.
Didn't I?
I need to rename this bad boy.
Okay, there we go.
So now the InfoP list is hooked up.
This actually triggers the
runtime machinery to read the
thing and make it actually work.
So now that we've got the standard suite,
like I said,
this defines all the standard verbs.
But not everything in here will
actually apply to all applications.
For instance, if your application,
you know, you've got some tiny little
control panel-ish thing,
doesn't really print anything,
you should remove the print verb.
Everything that shows up in here
will be reflected in your dictionary,
so remove all the bits that
don't actually apply to you.
In this case, there's really only one
that we need to get rid of,
the as parameter for save,
because Sketch only has one file format
that it can ever save anything in,
so the as would be fairly pointless.
So that's zapped.
The other thing we'll
need to change in here
One of the things about an sdef
is that it contains not merely
the interface information,
it also contains some implementation
information about how these
interface classes hook to your
actual implementation classes.
So one of those things is, well,
what's the actual backing
implementation class for,
say, a document?
We actually do define
our own document class.
So change that NS to SKT.
Draw a document.
Okay, so that's all the standard stuff.
So the next thing we're going to
do is add what's called a suite
for all of our sketch stuff,
the application-specific stuff.
Now, you might well ask,
"What's a suite?" Suites are just
organizational blocks to hold
related classes and commands.
There's no particular
technical reason to have them.
They're really just for the user's
benefit to help them find things.
So there's no technical limit,
upper or lower,
on how many things you can
have in a single suite.
It's simply a matter of taste.
Order things in a way
you think makes sense.
So it's traditional to have at least
one suite for your application.
So we can add that now.
And it's fairly straightforward,
a suite element.
You give it a name, Sketch Suite.
Everything in a Scripting
Interface will have a four,
or in some cases,
eight character code associated with it.
This has mostly to do with
how AppleScript works,
and it's kind of a historical
architecture thing.
And you can add a simple
description along with it.
The description is optional.
Okay, so we have a perfectly
reasonable skeleton here.
Save that.
And, well,
what are we going to do with this now?
What are we going to add?
Now, ideally,
you should be designing your scripting
even before you write any code.
It actually helps a lot to design
your model and make sure it
actually makes sense and generally
plot out your implementation
before you do these things.
Now, that's ideally, of course.
Practically speaking,
you're probably working on
an existing application.
You're retrofitting scripting into it.
So you have to actually analyze
your existing model classes.
Now, a well-designed implementation
will actually align quite nicely
with your scripting interface.
There'll be a one-to-one match.
This, you know, doesn't always happen,
but...
So we're going to pretend
that I'm the new guy who's
just been assigned this task.
I have to figure out the bloody
thing in the first place.
So we're going to take a
bit of a shortcut here.
We're going to use the
xDesign modeling tools.
Get us a little model.
Helpfully, they've already separated the
model classes into their own group.
So click Model.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, this is probably kind
of hard for you to read,
but there are three big
clusters here that you can see.
There's this one, which is NSView and
an SKT rendering view.
This is internal implementation.
A user will not know what this is,
so we don't care about this.
Over here, we have NSDocument
descends SKTDrawDocument,
and then there's a
category sticking on here.
And we'll notice that SKTDrawDocument
contains--it has a graphics attribute.
Over here is the big cluster.
This is the really interesting one.
An SKT graphic,
which is sort of the generic shape,
and then there are all these
specific ones hanging off it:
image, text area, line, circle,
rectangle.
A graphic defines pretty
much all the properties of
There are also some implementation
properties that we won't reveal,
things like a back
pointer to the document,
G flags, a ridge bounds,
which I presume has
something to do with undo.
This cluster here is obviously
a good place to start.
[Transcript missing]
So our first thing will be
to add the Graphic class,
because that's the common
ancestor for all the shapes.
So again, it follows a reasonably
familiar structure:
class, name equals graphic.
The name is always the name
that the user is going to see.
Again, the optional description
and the four-character code.
Inside that, we have this line,
a Cocoa element,
which specifies the implementation
class that represents a graphic.
And then a variety of properties.
Now notice that these do not map exactly
to the implementation properties.
For instance, in the original there was
simply a bounds field,
which was a rectangle.
Here it's been split out into
four different properties:
an x position, y position, width,
and height.
[Transcript missing]
So now we've got a Graphic class.
We need to actually hook
it into our document.
So we saw earlier that
documents contain graphics.
So to do that,
we should just add an element element.
So in the document class,
it says element type equals graphic.
And again,
there's some key value coding magic
going on behind the scenes here.
It knows to call the graphics accessor.
So now we've got our common base class.
Let's add one of the specific ones.
I'm going to go for the boxes.
So this one is extremely simple
because it turns out that boxes don't
define any of their own attributes.
Everything they need they
inherit from the graphic class.
So we simply have name equals box.
You can define a plural
name if it doesn't match
just tack an s onto the end.
In this case, box is code.
This is how you specify
inheritance in an sdef.
You just say inherits equals and
then the name of another class
somewhere else in your sdef.
Order is incidentally irrelevant.
There's no declare before use rule.
It looks at the whole thing and
figures out all the linkages.
and the Cocoa class.
And like I said, this,
according to the existing sketch,
is done.
This is all we have for the Box class.
Well, let's go into a little more detail.
We decide that something might be
interesting to have via scripting
is an orientation property.
Is the box landscape size,
or is it portrait size, or is it square?
So we can add that easily
enough with a property,
again, name, code,
and now we have a type.
And just, hmm, type, orientation,
that's new.
Well,
that's because I haven't added it yet.
Orientation is going to
be one of our own types.
It's an enumerated type.
This is one of the detailed
design rules I didn't mention.
It's considered bad taste to
have a property which is simply
a list of numbers where each
of the numbers means something.
You should actually use an enumerator,
and then your different options can
have real descriptive names so people
don't have to remember the numbers.
So in this case,
our possible orientations are portrait,
landscape, or square.
And since this is merely
designing the interface,
that's all we're going to do.
Oh, I forgot one thing.
Because we'd also like to
be able to ask about...
"Not merely graphics of a document,
but also boxes of a document.
We need to add that element
of relationship too."
So again, here's the key value coding
override I was talking about.
In the implementation,
boxes are actually called rectangles,
so that's what the accessor
wound up being named.
So we have to override that with, again,
one of these Cocoa elements.
So that's it for our objects,
at least as far as
we're going to do here.
So now let's try for a command.
Now, just about any graphics program
will have a rotate command.
So let's try for that one.
So again, the familiar name, code,
description.
The code for verbs, again this is kind of
for historical reasons,
is eight characters, not four.
But aside from that,
it's the same pattern.
The things for a command
are a little different,
naturally.
A command has what's
called a direct parameter.
Yes, this is the same thing as a direct
object in a sentence that you are
possibly having bad flashbacks to
your grammar school days about.
So in this case,
rotate takes a direct parameter
which is of type graphic.
You can rotate any of
the graphic objects.
And you need a specific
parameter which has,
again, a name, code, in this case, type,
which is the number of
degrees to rotate it.
If you're implementing this in Cocoa,
your parameters will come
to you as an NSDictionary,
so you need to tell it the key
name to use for that dictionary.
In this case,
we're going to call it "by degrees."
Now, skipping ahead slightly
to implementation,
there are kind of two different
ways you can do commands.
There's object-first dispatch
and there's verb-first dispatch.
And they're useful for
different kinds of operations.
In some cases,
it doesn't really matter how many
objects you send the message to,
because they'll all do it themselves.
Rotate is basically like this,
that each object should rotate
itself by 45 degrees or whatever.
So, in that case,
Cocoa can do object-first,
that it sorts out all the objects and
then sends each of them a rotate message.
Now, sometimes this doesn't work.
Sometimes you need to operate on
the whole collection collectively,
for lack of a better word.
So, in that case,
you do verb-first dispatch,
and we'll see an example
of that in a little bit.
In this case, for object-first dispatch,
now that we've got the command,
we have to specify what
objects respond to it.
So we can do that by adding a
"RespondsTo" to the Graphic class.
So we say "RespondsTo"
the rotate command,
and the Cocoa method to call
when you see this is "Rotate:".
So now let's have a look
at an example of VerbFirst.
There's an align command in Sketch.
And this is a perfect example of
something that doesn't make sense
to send to each object individually.
Because the whole point of
align is that you're aligning
a set of objects to each other.
It wouldn't make any sense if you
just sent a line to a single object.
It would have to-- it either
wouldn't know what to do,
or it would have to go out and
find all the other objects,
which would be kind of
a waste of its time.
Much simpler to make Cocoa do it for you.
So in this case,
you can see the name of the command,
description, direct parameter.
In this case, align,
we're being specific that it's always
going to take a list of objects,
because aligning a single object
would be sort of pointless.
So the way you specify a list
is with a type sub-element.
You can say type equals graphic,
list equals yes.
So this will show up in the
dictionary as a list of graphics.
Oh, and again, we're using a parameter
with an edge type.
We need an edge to align these things to,
another enumeration of ours,
which we should add here.
We have the left, right, bottom,
and top edges, and also the horizontal
and vertical center edge,
as it were.
Now, for verb-first dispatch,
what Cocoa is going to do is it is
simply going to look at the verb,
and you define a class
to handle that command.
By default,
everything just goes to NSScriptCommand,
and that knows how to do
the object-first dispatch.
If you need to do verb-first dispatch,
you define your own
descendant of NSScriptCommand.
In this case,
we're calling it skt-alignCommand,
and that has a method that it overrides,
which will get all the objects,
and then it can do the operation.
So to do that, to specify that override,
again, you use a Cocoa element.
Say Cocoa class equals SKT align command.
Okay, so now we've got all this.
I should be able to build Go.
Yeah, I don't really care about that,
but let's save it anyway.
Yeah, yeah, sure.
Yeesh.
Should have said no.
Okay.
So we've got Sketch running.
And, oh silly me,
I actually have to work for this one.
Fire up Script Editor here.
"Proversely enough,
this is the one thing that I didn't
have in Demo Monkey." Okay,
tell application sketch
This is an example of using
the Objects and Tel Blocks.
This lets me abbreviate
object specifiers.
[Transcript missing]
So this is simple script to
just slap in some random colors.
And you'll notice that-- remember
that close all windows example?
And I said that, well,
you don't need a close
all windows command.
The fact that you can address all
windows just kind of drops out of
normal object addressing syntax.
Same deal here.
I could change the sum to every.
Or I can use a random one.
I could name a specific one.
And the scripting language
actually takes care of this for me.
All I have to worry about
is defining a graphic class.
and the language will actually
take care of the rest.
A little overenthusiastic
there with the copy and paste.
There we go.
Whee.
Look at the colors.
Okay, now those of you who have actually
worked with Sketch before might have
noticed something a little funny,
which is that, you know,
Sketch is already scriptable.
It had its scripting defined in the
older Cocoa Suite definition files,
ScriptSuite and ScriptTerminology pairs.
So you might well ask yourself, "Geez,
why do we have to write
in sdef by hand?" Well,
there's a very pleasant answer to that,
which is, you don't have to.
There's a tool on the system.
It's new in Tiger.
It didn't exist before.
It's actually a command
line tool called dsdp.
There's an older SDP tool which
takes sdefs and turns them
into some of the older formats.
So this does the reverse, hence the DSDP.
So you can simply point it at a
built copy of the application.
[Transcript missing]
Here's everything that it derived
from our old scripting format.
It works on AET applications
just as well.
That's the old Carbon format.
So you take all this and
base your scripting on it.
Now, the thing about DSDP is that
the result that it produces,
it's going to need some editing.
It's not a complete solution.
The main reason for that is simply
that sdef is more expressive than
either of the old two formats.
So, for instance,
the Cocoa Script Suite script
terminology files can't actually specify
the order that things come out in.
Sdef can.
You can have more elaborate comments
than you could in either of them,
things like that.
But especially for a larger application,
it gives you a great starting
point and saves you a lot of work.
I forgot about all of these.
I should have been skimming through.
Sorry, these were my notes to myself,
which I was watching on a...
: So theoretically, at this point,
you've learned what a
scripting interface is,
why you would want one,
some of the design guidelines
and where to find rest,
and some of the basics
about how to write an sdef.
There's more complete
documentation on the format.
Some of it's in the Cocoa documentation.
There's also a man page
for the sdef format itself,
just say man sdef.
And if you've done some
of the work already,
you've already got a Scripting Interface,
how to leverage some of that.
So, some more information pointers.
Man, I was really flying on this one.
So, related sessions,
I mentioned these at the beginning.
Obviously, tomorrow morning,
bright and early, 9:00,
implementing a Scripting Interface.
I'll show you how to actually
hook some of this stuff up
and make it do something.
And then later that afternoon,
if you've got any questions left,
come to the lab.
Like I said,
I'll have copies of the skeleton sdef
there for you if you want to take
that home and start playing with it.
People to contact:
Our esteemed Marketing Manager,
Sal Segoian.
I'm sure he's around here somewhere.
And Todd Fernandez is the
Engineering Manager for the
AppleScript and Automator group.